# LuaTerritory

A set of chunks on a single [LuaSurface](runtime:LuaSurface) that can be guarded by one or more
[LuaSegmentedUnit](runtime:LuaSegmentedUnit)s.  A territory is owned by the surface for which it was
created. It comprises any number of disconnected or connected chunks. A chunk can only be owned by
at most one territory. A territory's chunks may or may not be generated.  Territories may be
patrolled by any number of [LuaSegmentedUnit](runtime:LuaSegmentedUnit)s. A territory with no units
will not appear on player's maps.  Territories may define a patrol path that
[LuaSegmentedUnit](runtime:LuaSegmentedUnit)s will follow. If no such path is defined, then units
will wander randomly throughout the territory chunks. If a territory contains no patrol path and no
chunks, then units will behave as if they are assigned to any territory.  The game will
automatically destroy any territory that does not have at least one chunk that is generated or
requested to be generated. This is to prevent bloat when chunks are deleted. This can happen as a
result of any operation that modifies a territory's chunks, including but not limited to
[LuaSurface::delete_chunk](runtime:LuaSurface::delete_chunk),
[LuaSurface::set_territory_for_chunks](runtime:LuaSurface::set_territory_for_chunks), and
[LuaSurface::clear_territory_for_chunks](runtime:LuaSurface::clear_territory_for_chunks).

## Attributes

### `surface` — `LuaSurface` (read-only)

The surface on which this territory is located.

### `valid` — `boolean` (read-only)

Is this object valid? This Lua object holds a reference to an object within the game engine. It is
possible that the game-engine object is removed whilst a mod still holds the corresponding Lua
object. If that happens, the object becomes invalid, i.e. this attribute will be `false`. Mods are
advised to check for object validity if any change to the game state might have occurred between the
creation of the Lua object and its access.

### `object_name` — `string` (read-only)

The class name of this object. Available even when `valid` is false. For LuaStruct objects it may
also be suffixed with a dotted path to a member of the struct.

## Methods

### `destroy()`

Immediately destroys the territory, along with any segmented units guarding it. All associated
chunks are cleared from the territory system, allowing the map generator to potentially generate new
territories for these chunks in the future.  This [LuaTerritory](runtime:LuaTerritory) is no longer
valid after calling this.

### `get_chunks() -> array[ChunkPositionAndArea]`

Gets all chunks that are a part of the territory.  Chunks may or may not be generated; use
[LuaSurface::is_chunk_generated](runtime:LuaSurface::is_chunk_generated) to check a chunk's state
before accessing it.

**Returns:**

- `array[ChunkPositionAndArea]` — 

### `get_segmented_units() -> array[LuaSegmentedUnit]`

Gets the [LuaSegmentedUnit](runtime:LuaSegmentedUnit)s that guard this territory.

**Returns:**

- `array[LuaSegmentedUnit]` — 

### `regenerate_segmented_units()`

Regenerates any segmented units that were created when the territory was generated by the map
generator. If the territory was created or modified by a script, and the surface's map generator is
configured to create segmented units with territories, then this function will create the segmented
units that would have been created along with the script-modified or script-created territory. If
the surface's map generator is not configured to create segmented units at all, then no segmented
units will be created.  Note: this does not destroy or replace existing units guarding the
territory, and existing units will not prevent the generation of new units. Calling this repeatedly
on a territory that generates a segmented unit will simply repeatedly add new segmented units to the
map, all guarding this territory.

### `regenerate_patrol_path()`

Regenerates the patrol path for the territory according to the game's default territory generation
algorithm and overwrites the territory's current patrol path.

### `get_patrol_path() -> array[MapPosition]`

Get the path that the territory's units follow when patrolling the territory. Will not be empty.  It
is common that the territory's patrol path is fully contained within the territory's chunks, but it
is not strictly necessary.

**Returns:**

- `array[MapPosition]` — 

### `set_patrol_path(patrol_path: array[MapPosition])`

Overwrite the territory patrol path for units that guard the territory.  It is recommended that the
territory's patrol path be fully contained within the territory's chunks, but it is not strictly
necessary.  To let the territory system generate a patrol path, use
[LuaTerritory::regenerate_patrol_path](runtime:LuaTerritory::regenerate_patrol_path).

**Parameters:**

| Name | Type | Optional | Description |
| ---- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `patrol_path` | `array[MapPosition]` | no | The new patrol path for the territory. Must not be empty. |
